Update desktop docs (#1374)
pomerium/documentation: content/docs/capabilities/tcp/client.mdx

# Pomerium Desktop and CLI Clients

This document describes how to use Pomerium's Desktop and CLI clients to connect to TCP routes in Pomerium.

:::note TCP Terminology

> In this document, a "TCP route" refers to a route configured to accept TCP connections.

Reviewer: I think this is a good idea — it's natural for a reader to have the question "what's a TCP route" here.

I think we could make this even clearer by comparing with "regular" http/https routes.

What do you think of something like this?

```markdown
:::info What's a TCP route?

A TCP route is for use with upstream services that don't speak HTTP — for example
SSH, Redis, or MySQL. With a TCP route, the entire connection is proxied to the
upstream service, rather than each individual request separately.

In Pomerium, TCP routes are denoted with a `tcp+` prefix in the route's **From** URL.
```

:::

## Create a TCP route

> 1. Specify this new Route as a TCP Route by prefixing `tcp+` in the **From** field, along with a port suffix

Reviewer: Like below, I think "port number" is more standard.

```suggestion
1. Specify this new Route as a TCP Route by prefixing `tcp+` in the **From** field, along with a port number.
```

> 1. The **To** field uses `tcp://` as a protocol, and specifies the address and port the service listens on

Reviewer: While we're here, I think it would make sense to rephrase this step as an instruction, for consistency with step 1.

```suggestion
1. Set the **To** field using `tcp://` as the scheme, along with the address and port that the upstream service is listening on.
```

Author: Nice catch, and I agree.

The example below demonstrates a route to an SSH service on the host running Pomerium:

<Tabs>

> <TabItem value="Pomerium Zero" label="Pomerium Zero">

Reviewer: I like the Zero screenshot, but I think it might be better to add this in a separate PR, so we can go ahead and backport this one.

              is: user@companydomain.com
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note

> The port suffix appended to the **From** route is not used to connect to the Pomerium Proxy service from the internet; this will always be port 443 (unless otherwise defined in the configuration file).

Reviewer: Sorry, I think I deleted a pending comment somehow. I think this could be made a little clearer, along the lines of:

```markdown
:::tip

The port number in the route **From** URL is not used in the initial connection
to Pomerium itself. This connection will still use port 443, unless you use a
bastion host (see [Advanced configuration](#advanced-configuration) below).
```

:::

See the "Configure Routes" section of [TCP Support](/docs/capabilities/tcp#configure-routes) for more detailed information on TCP routes.

## Access TCP routes with a client

You can connect to this route with either the Pomerium CLI or Pomerium Desktop client.

### Desktop client steps

If you haven't, install [Pomerium Desktop](/docs/deploy/clients/pomerium-desktop).

Then, add a connection by filling in the fields defined below:

- **Name**: A local name for the route
- **Destination**: Matches the [From](/docs/reference/routes/from) value of the route, without the protocol. Always include the port specified in the route, and do not include the `https://` protocol.
- **Local Address**: The local address and port number from which to access the service locally. If left blank, the client will choose a random port to listen to on the loopback address.
- **Tags**: Customizable tags to sort and organize TCP routes

![Adding a new connection in the Pomerium Desktop client](./examples/img/desktop/desktop-new-connection.png)

> :::note Long-lived connections behavior

Reviewer: This admonition feels out of place to me. I think it might make sense to remove it, so this section can focus on the "how-to".
